# Computational Psychiatry in Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)

In this project, we aimed to achieve a greater understanding of the landscape of computational psychiatry in PTSD, because there are no existing papers summarising different models in this field to our knowledge. 

We first explored the concepts in computational psychiatry in a general sense and the dominant hypothesis of PTSD: (1) abnormal fear learning and (2) exaggerated threat detection. Recent computational studies have used reinforcement learning (RL) models to fit behavioural experiments with PTSD patients. We exhaustively described three model-free RL: (1) Rescorla-Wagner (RW) model, (2) Pearce-Hall (PH) model and (3) Gain-loss model and one model-based RL: latent-state (LS) model. Besides, we discussed the distinctions between these computational models of PTSD. By investigating the current papers on PTSD, which use the quantitative abductive approach of computational psychiatry, we also discussed the research findings obtained using these models. 

We then illustrate this approach by reimplementing the RW model, following the procedure recommended by Wilson et al. [87] and simulating the experiment of Homan et al. [35]. This approach has shown differences in how prediction errors are weighted in PTSD, in which PTSD assign more weight to prediction errors during learning than normal people. In addition, the PTSD symptom severity score positively correlates with the weightage of prediction error in learning. Those results indicate the component of learning, which is impaired in PTSD, and PTSD can be characterised by abnormal attention to surprising events. Other than that, these findings suggest the possibility of using weight to prediction error as the computational marker of PTSD, which in turn aids the PTSD diagnosis. Moreover, further PTSD studies using RL models with fMRI analysis might explain how the altered neural response to surprising events relates to PTSD patients and help pharmaceutical scientists discover the drug specifically for PTSD treatment.
